CHAPTER IX.
Wisdom hath builded her house.
She hath hewn out her seven pillars.
She hath killed her beasts.
She hath mingled her wine.
She hath also furnished her table.
She hath set forth her maidens.
She crieth upon the highest places of the city.
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither.
As for him that wanteth understanding, she sayeth to him,
Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled.
Forsake the foolish and live, and go in the way of understanding.
He that reproveth a scorner, geteth to himself shame.
And he that rebuketh a wicked man, geteth himself a blot.
Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee.
Rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.
Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser.
Teach a just man, and he will increase in learning.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom,
and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.
For by me thy ways shall be multiplied,
and the years of thy life shall be increased.
If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself.
But if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.
A foolish woman is calamitous.
She is simple, and knoweth nothing.
For she sitteth at the door of her house,
on a seat in the high places of the city,
to call passengers who go right on their ways.
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither.
As for him that wanteth understanding, she sayeth to him,
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
But he knoweth not that the dead are in there,
and that her guests are in the depths of hell.